{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1347\cocoasubrtf570
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 HAVEN, Wis. -- {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://espn.go.com/golf/player/_/id/308/phil-mickelson"}}{\fldrslt Phil Mickelson}} slid down a grass-covered knoll on his rear end Friday, the subject of numerous highlight packages for his playful fun rather than his lackluster golf.\
Wearing beige pants on Saturday after Whistling Straits took a weather beating the night before prevented Lefty from engaging in the same behavior during the third round of the PGA Championship.\
So he had a different kind of fun.\
The kind you have when you shoot a good score in a major championship.\
Mickelson shot 6-under-par 66, his best round in a major since the final round of last year's PGA Championship, where he finished second to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://espn.go.com/golf/player/_/id/3470/rory-mcilroy"}}{\fldrslt Rory McIlroy}}. This one was unlikely to give him a shot at a second Wanamaker Trophy, but it at least had him sniffing the top 10.\
And yet even that was somewhat unsatisfying, given that Mickelson felt he could have challenged the major championship scoring record of 62.\
"With the three 3-putts and a couple other bogeys and mistakes that I made, it could have been in the low 60s and possibly broken the major record," Mickelson said. "That would have been special. But you can't make those kind of mistakes.\
"I finally, though, hit enough good shots. I hit a lot of quality shots and made some good putts. But I did the hard things very well and the easy things not so well today. But it's a process of slowly getting it back. It's been two years since I've been at my best, and it's a little disappointing it's taken so long. I'm trying to be patient, and rounds like these help because I see how close I am to finally being at my best."\
If it seems as if Mickelson has been saying the same thing for awhile ... well, he has. At age 45, he is now ranked 23rd in the world, having recently been as high as ninth after his PGA Championship near-miss a year ago.\
Mickelson does have three top-5 finishes this year, including a tie for second at the Masters, but he was never truly in contention over the final nine. He was not a factor at the U.S. Open or The Open and tied for 63rd last week at the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational, never breaking par.\
"I've played well at a few tournaments this year," Mickelson said. "It's actually been a surprise to me that I drove it so poorly last week and not as well this year, because I've been driving the ball much, much better now that the swing is back on plane and my posture is a bit better. All the little nuances and subtleties and fundamentals are slowly getting better, making the game a little bit easier."\
Mickelson made nine birdies Saturday, but was frustrated by his inability to avoid those 3-putt greens that resulted in bogeys at the third, seventh and 15th holes. Those turned what could have been a great round into a good one.\
While Mickelson was signing his scorecard, his wife, Amy, was talking about how much her husband wants to be on the U.S. Presidents Cup team that will play in South Korea in September. Mickelson is well out of the running for an automatic spot -- he's 36th in the standings -- with just the top 10 through the Deutsche Bank Championship assured of a place.\
As Amy Mickelson said, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://espn.go.com/golf/player/_/id/181/jay-haas"}}{\fldrslt Jay Haas}} is the captain, with {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://espn.go.com/golf/player/_/id/278/davis-love-iii"}}{\fldrslt Davis Love III}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://espn.go.com/golf/player/_/id/91/fred-couples"}}{\fldrslt Fred Couples}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://espn.go.com/golf/player/_/id/412/steve-stricker"}}{\fldrslt Steve Stricker}}\'a0as assistants. "Those are our people," she said.\
If she was lobbying, Phil Mickelson wasn't having it.\
"I've got to play better," he said. "My game plan is to play through the points, and see where I'm at there. I'm certainly far away. But I know that rounds like this tell me that I'm very close to having it click. If it clicks, I should be able to win one of those next couple of events and get myself right back up there in contention for the points.\
"Having a good final round would get me even a little bit closer to where a win would get me on the team. I don't want to have to be a pick. I haven't been a pick in 20 years. I don't want to be a pick now. I want to get on the team on my own merit, but I haven't played well enough soon enough to do it."\
\
It is remarkable to think that Mickelson has been a part of every U.S. Ryder Cup and Presidents Cup team dating back to 1995 -- and has made every team on points, never needing a pick.\
That could change this year -- and it's hard to envision Haas not choosing him if he's showing any good form.\
Mickelson showed plenty over the past two days. On Saturday, it was with a remarkable up and down from a bunker on the front nine, which preceded him waving to those watching from a nearby boat on Lake Michigan.\
And then there was Friday, when Phil the Thrill slid down that hill on the eighth hole, popping up all on his own like he knew exactly what he was doing.\
"I got going faster than I thought I would, especially at the bottom," Mickelson said.}