{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1347\cocoasubrtf570
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red246\green246\blue239;\red244\green0\blue95;\red157\green101\blue255;
\red224\green213\blue97;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I am happy to join with you today \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
in\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 what will go down \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
in\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 history as the greatest demonstration \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
for\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 freedom \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
in\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 the history \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
of\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 our nation.\
\
Five score years ago, a great American, \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
in\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon light \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
of\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 hope to millions \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
of\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 Negro slaves who had been seared \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
in\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 the flames \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
of\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 withering injustice. It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
of\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 their captivity.\
\
But one hundred years later, the Negro still \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
is\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
not\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 free. One hundred years later, the life \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
of\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 the Negro \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
is\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 still sadly crippled \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
by\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 the manacles \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
of\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 segregation \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
and\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 the chains \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
of\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 discrimination. One hundred years later, the Negro lives \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
on\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 a lonely island \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
of\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 poverty \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
in\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 the midst \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
of\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 a vast ocean \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
of\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 material prosperity. One hundred years later, the Negro \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
is\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 still languished \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
in\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 the corners \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
of\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 American society \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
and\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 finds himself an exile \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
in\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 his own land. And so we\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
've come here today to dramatize a shameful condition.\
\
In a sense we'\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ve come to our nation\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
's capital to cash a check. When the architects of our republic wrote the magnificent words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promissory note to which every American was to fall heir. This note was a promise that all men, yes, black men as well as white men, would be guaranteed the "unalienable Rights" of "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." It is obvious today that America has defaulted on this promissory note, insofar as her citizens of color are concerned. Instead of honoring this sacred obligation, America has given the Negro people a bad check, a check which has come back marked "insufficient funds."}